NATIONAL TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY OF ATHENS
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING AND COMPUTER ENGINEERING

Shopping cart analysis
A large Super Market chain has decided to issue a customer loyalty card
so that it can gather information about its customers and be able to make
targeted marketing decisions. So he entrusted you with the implementation of one
integrated system for storing, managing and analyzing information collected.
The system must store information about the company's stores. There are
a total of ten stores in three different cities in Greece. For the stores,
we are interested in the opening hours, the address, the square meters of the store
and the product categories offered.
Products are offered from six categories: Fresh products, refrigerator items, wine items,
toiletries, household items and pet products. In each category
there are from ten to twenty products.
For each product the system must store: its current value, the aisle
of the store in which it is located, the shelf in which it is located and a special
note whether the product is a store label or not. The system still has to
keeps track of all product price changes.
Each customer will have his personal card with which he will make purchases and win
rewards. The system should store personal and family information of
customers as well as the card number they use.
For each user transaction the total purchase cost should be recorded,
the number and type of products purchased, the time at which the
transaction, method of payment.
As part of the work you are invited to develop the application / website that will
serve the above purpose. In more detail we must:
1. Draw the ER diagram resulting from the above description. The
diagram will be delivered independently and earlier than the rest of the project. (15%)
2. Draw the relational diagram corresponding to the ER diagram that
delivered or which will be given to you after the delivery deadline of
your ER diagram. (5%)
3. Develop the DB that the application will use based on the choices you have
maked for the ER diagram between yours and the proposed solution. To
set all the necessary restrictions that will ensure its correctness
DB. These are integrity constraints, keys, referential integrity,
price field integrity and user-defined constraints. SQL
updates. DB insert, update and delete should be allowed for the tables
data based on their relative integrity constraints
set in the previous step. (10%)
4. Enter information for each of the entities in the DB. In the DB you should ensure
there is sufficient data to ensure that all queries are executed successfully and
return the appropriate information. (5%)
5. Define at least three appropriate indexes for the DB tables and
justify your choice based on their usefulness to the questions
in which they are used. (10%)
6. Development of a suitable User Interface. The User Interface should be user friendly
the user, should not require knowledge of SQL or database elements by the user and
all requests must be given by appropriate forms within the application.
Where appropriate, appropriate elements such as drop-downs should be used.
down lists, radio buttons and more. Through which a user will be able to see:
a. All purchases made based on multiple criteria, choose the
shop that he is interested in and see purchases that have been made there. The criteria
these should be the date he is interested in, the product units that have been
purchased, the amount of the total purchase, purchases made through use
card or cash and product category. These criteria should be
independent, not all should be required and the list that the user will see must be
updated with any variation in selection. (10%)
b. The user interface should show the customer profile, and the markets that
they visit. For each customer, the ten most popular products should be listed,
how many and which stores he visits, a chart with the hours
who usually visits each store as well as their average sum of
transactions per week and per month. (10%)
c. The user interface should also show conclusions that can be
extracted from the data collected. These should
include the most popular product pairs, the most popular positions inside
the store for product placement, the percentage per product category
that users trust products labeled "store", the hours that
consumers spend more money as well as the percentage of the age
groups visiting the store every hour. (10%)
d. The user should still be able to see two views (aspects of the relational
model), one with sales per product category per store and one with
customer details. (10%)
e. The User Interface should allow their insertion / deletion / editing
information about customers, stores and products. (5%)
f. The user will be able to change the price of a product and see the whole
history of changes. (5%)
g. Finally, you need to write two of your own analysis questions which
will provide the user with some useful information that would not be easily
recognizable by a simple reading of the data. (5%)